Welcome back to Movie Recapped.
Today I will show you a drama,
fantasy, horror film from 2016, titled A Cure for
Wellness. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
We find our protagonist, Lockhart, working
on his laptop on a train in Europe. He has a
letter with him that he picks up to review its
contents. The letter comes from his company's
CEO Roland Pembroke and is informing the
board of directors that he won't be coming
back because he's found "the truth" and "the
cure". While Lockhart rereads the letter,
he starts remembering how all this started.
A couple of days ago, in his New York office,
a recently promoted Lockhart is summoned by the
board of directors. Once in their office, they
show him this letter, which makes everyone think
Pembroke has lost his mind during his holiday.
The board is worried about the incoming merge,
needing Pembroke for legal matters - so they
send Lockhart to retrieve him from that
sanatorium, a mission he can't refuse
because he's threatened with jail thanks to some
irregularities found on his business transactions.
Back in the present, Lockhart's train makes it to
its destination: a station near the Swiss Alps.
He's picked up by a driver that works for
the sanatorium and points out Lockhart is
younger than the usual clients - they're usually
elderly and rich, and they never want to leave.
When the driver asks Lockhart about
his family, we get another flashback:
before getting his promotion, Lockhart
visited his mother at the retirement home,
where she was painting ballerina
dolls, and she gifted him one.
That ballerina is with him in the present, still
in the car. They pass through the local village,
where they aren't well-received: the locals
have never liked the people from the mountain.
The driver tells him some history of the place
then: the foundations date back to the time of
barons, these lands have always belonged to
the von Reichmerl family. The last baron was
so obsessed with the purity of his lineage that
he decided only his sister was good enough to
carry his child. When the church protested,
he renounced God and on the wedding night,
the villagers went up to the castle, dragged the
couple to the catacombs and made the baron watch
how they burned his sister alive. They burned the
whole place afterward, this was 200 years ago.
They make it to the residence soon after. As soon
as he gets inside, Lockhart asks the receptionist
to see Pembroke, but she points out that visiting
hours are over. Since she won't make an exception
for him, he asks to see the manager before going
outside to make a phone call while waiting.
A trio of elderly patients that include Victoria
Watkins points out there's no signal up there as
part of the treatment, but Lockhart keeps trying
anyway. Another old man asks him to pass him the
ball he just threw and when Lockhart crouches
to grab it, he hears some weird noises coming
from a small building in the middle of the garden.
Moments later, he's received by one of the doctors
in his office. While the doctor drinks some
drops from a little blue bottle that he claims
are vitamins, Lockhart asks for an exception to
be able to see Pembroke again. The doctor also
turns him down as he explains it's part of the
treatment and tells Lockhart a little about it:
the sanatorium is built on top of an ancient
aquifer with unique rejuvenating properties.
Since Lockhart keeps insisting on the importance
of his visit, the doctor tells him to come after
seven, when the treatments are over. Lockhart
drinks a glass of water before leaving.
The driver is waiting for him outside. As he
enters the car, Lockhart asks him to take him
to a hotel so he can make a call. On their way
out, they see a mysterious girl standing on one
of the walls of the building. They've barely
made it to the road when a moose comes out of
nowhere and hits the car, making it roll off the
road and knocking out Lockhart and the driver.
We go through a series of visions then, including
a fire, the girl from the wall, the ballerina
dolls, eels, blue bottles, and Lockhart's mother
passing away alone in the retirement home.
Sometime later, Lockhart wakes up in a bed
at the sanitarium where he finally meets the
doctor in charge, Heinreich Volme. After he tells
Lockhart he's been there for three days, Lockhart
takes the sheets off him only to find his leg
in a cast. Volmer tells him he's already called
Lockhart's bosses to tell them about the accident,
and they said Lockhart's health is more important,
which sounds very unlike them. He also tells
him that since they're on high altitudes,
he should drink plenty of water. Now
Lockhart is stuck there until he recovers.
When he drinks his glass of water, he can't
help noticing a tiny worm-like creature in it.
Lockhart leaves his room and explores
the sanitarium in search of Pembroke,
he learns he's in the sauna after lying to a nurse
to get the information. When he gets to the sauna,
Lockhart feels a bit at loss: there seems to be
room after room connected to each other, and at
some point, he can't even find a door, thinking
he's trapped. A noise suddenly alerts him of a
door reappearing and when he turns around, he sees
a moose passing by. When he enters that room, he
finally finds Pembroke. Lockhart tries to convince
him to return to New York, but Pembroke refuses,
saying he's not well, even if he doesn't look like
it. While Lockhart continues to talk business,
Pembroke changes rooms to get into a swimming
pool - after being underwater for a moment,
he resurfaces and accepts to
go back to work for a few days.
Hours later, Lockhart approaches the receptionist
and tells her to call for a car that will take
him to the station. He leaves for the gardens
afterward, and he can't help staring at the
small garden building. Victoria notices this and
approaches him to tell him about the history of
the place by showing him a book: that's the former
church where the baron hanged the priest. Lockhart
tells her about the incest situation, which
she didn't know about. After she leaves for
her treatment, Lockhart starts hearing a female
voice singing and decides to follow the sound.
Near a well behind the building, he finds the
girl he saw on the wall the day he arrived. When
he asks her if there's something in the water,
she says there is, but he doesn't see anything.
The girl explains she is a patient here, much
younger than average because she's a special case.
When he says he isn't a patient and he was
just leaving, she mentions nobody ever leaves.
After she notices she's being watched from
a window, the girl leaves, but not without
introducing herself: her name is Hannah.
Lockhart returns to the sanitarium,
but there's nobody at the reception desk
and Pembroke isn't in his room either.
He goes to the dining room next, where
doctors and patients alike are having diner,
to confront Volmer. Apparently, Pembroke relapsed
so he can't leave, but Lockhart doesn't buy it,
he thinks the doctors are keeping the
patients sick for the sake of the business.
He starts to threaten with legal action
when suddenly his nose starts bleeding
and his mind gets dizzy before he passes out.
He wakes up in Volmer's office, who is giving
him an examination. After that's done, Lockhart
notices a picture of Hannah on the doctor's desk,
Volmer tells him she's a special case because she
went through severe trauma as a child and she has
development problems, she didn't speak until she
was eleven, and that she's like a daughter to him.
He changes the subject then and tells
Lockhart he ran some tests after the accident,
the results aren't good, he thinks Lockhart
is a very advanced case for such a young age.
So he offers him to go through the purification
treatment while waiting for Pembroke to get
better, Lockhart accepts to play along. When
Volmer leaves the office to find a nurse,
Lockhart opens a cabinet and steals Pembroke's
file; he also finds another of those blue bottles.
When the doctor returns, Lockhart distracts
him by asking about a locket that was hanging
nearby as he hides the stolen files in his
clothes. Volmer tells him the locket was
found during the rebuilding and used to belong
to the baroness, a very sick woman. It was the
baron that found out about the healing properties
of the water when trying to find a cure for her.
A nurse comes to pick him up to take
him to the isolation chamber then.
Before the treatment, Lockhart must urinate in a
cup and when he leaves it next to other samples,
he notices the other patient's cups
have something weird floating in them.
He's put in a huge metal chamber
afterward, which is filled with water.
He's told not to be surprised if he has some
visions, which is a common side-effect, and
that he should knock on the chamber window if he
needs anything. The visions start pretty quickly:
first he sees some memories of his father, but
then he sees Hannah, which makes him open his eyes
and notice the eels that are now with him in the
tank. Panicking, Lockhart knocks on the window to
no avail, since the doctor is busy being intimate
with a nurse and sharing more "vitamin" drops.
Lockhart tries to swim up and open the chamber
door, but it's sealed, so he ends up passing out.
After remembering the day his father jumped off
a bridge, Lockhart wakes up and finds himself
on the bridge next to the chamber, the doctor
and the nurse next to him. He tells him there's
something in the water, but when they look
at it with the torch, there's nothing there.
Back in his room, he retrieves Pembrose's file
from his hidden spot in his cast. Lockhart doesn't
understand the words, but he does find some x-rays
that tell him Pembrose was losing his teeth.
His reading is interrupted by a sound coming
from the bathroom so he goes to investigate:
the toilet lever is shaking. Touching it is enough
to stop it, and now he's near the window, Lockhart
notices something strange: a bald man is taking
a body on a stretcher into the church building.
The next morning, Lockhart goes to ask
Victoria what the church building is being
used for nowadays. She says she doesn't
know, but she's found out something else:
the villagers didn't burn the sanitarium
down because of the siblings' marriage,
they did it because of the experiments.
Peasants had been disappearing and in 1814,
farmers found their disfigured bodies, similar
to mummies. Before leaving for her treatment,
she tells Lockhart that there's a
terrible darkness in this place.
Lockhart goes to the church building
to try to get in, but it's locked.
He sees the bald man from last night and asks
him about it, but he doesn't speak English.
It's then that he sees Hannah passing by on a
bike in the distance, so he follows her. When he
catches up with her, he offers his ballerina doll
in exchange for Hannah giving him a ride to town.
She accepts even if she isn't allowed to.
Once in town, they enter a bar where they get
many weird looks. Lockhart asks for two pints
of beers and the closest thing to a doctor,
he's told to go see Pieter. He takes the beer to a
table to share with Hannah and she tells her more
about her life: she's been in the clinic for as
long as she remembers, her mother passed away when
she was a baby, and her father is supposed to come
when she feels better. She's also drinking the
blue bottle vitamins, which she shares with him.
Lockhart tells her to wait for him for a moment
while he goes to see Pieter, who is a vet but will
still read Pembrose's files in exchange for money.
He informs Lockhart that the people from the spa
are dying from dehydration, which makes no sense
considering all the water they drink. Lockhart
suspects they're experiments like the baron used
to do, and Pieter tells him the baroness wasn't
sick, she was infertile. After that he goes back
to work, he needs to put a cow that drank black
water out of her misery. When he cuts her stomach
open, a calf and a bunch of eels come out.
Meanwhile, at the bar, one of the locals lends
Hannah a coin so she can choose a song at the
jukebox, which she starts dancing to. Lockhart
returns then and asks the barman for a phone
to call New York. When his boss picks up he's
very angry, turns out nobody actually called
the company to tell them about the accident.
Lockhart drops the phone when he notices a guy
getting too close to Hannah and he tries to get
her away to interrogate her about the "vitamins",
making the other guy angry. They get into a fight,
and Lockhart is threatened with a knife when
Volmer makes his appearance at the bar, making
everyone back way since they're afraid of him.
After scolding Lockhart for taking Hannah to town,
both of them are taken back to the clinic.
After seeing a vision of Hannah in a tub full
of eels, Lockhart wakes up in his room and once
again, sees the bald man with a stretcher near
the church building. The bathroom noises happen
again too and when he goes there to stop them,
he looks at himself in the mirror to notice a
tooth getting loose, so he easily pulls it out.
Lockhart runs to see a nurse and he gives
her his tooth to put in milk. While she's
doing that, he checks the treatment list to find
Pembrose and leaves before the nurse returns.
It takes him a lot of walking into the deepest
areas of the sanitarium and avoiding many
doctors to find the transfusion wing. There are
some weird metal chambers, hot to the touch,
that confirm some weird experiments are going
on. On a stretcher nearby, she finds Victoria,
who adds more bits to the story: the baroness
was pregnant the night of the wedding,
and the fetus was cut out before they burned her.
The baby was thrown in the aquifer and survived,
but she doesn't know it. When stepping back
from Virginia's creepy touch, Lockhart pushes
some trays to the floor and must leave the
room before the noises alerted the doctors.
He makes it to another room and when he turns
on the lights, he finds a terrifying sight:
many bodies floating in water, including Pembrose.
Scared, he runs away, and Volmer finds him - he
pretends to have gotten lost while trying to
find someone to check his tooth. They take him
to see the clinic's dentist, where he's tied
to a chair because they don't use anesthetics.
The dentist is in the process of drilling one of
Lockhart's good teeth when we cut the sanitarium's
entrance, where a new patient is arriving in
the usual car. The driver is about to take off
when suddenly, a bleeding Lockhart enters the
back seat and asks him to get him out of there.
When they reach town, Lockhart goes to see a
police officer and tells him everything that's
happened. The cop is skeptical, and asks him for a
way to check his identity - Lockhart gives him his
company's phone number because he doesn't have his
wallet with him. The officer leaves to make the
call and Lockhart notices a blue bottle on the
shelves. He doesn't have time to react because
when the cop returns, Volmer is with him and says
Lockhart has been hallucinating. To prove it,
he makes Pembrose come in, who says Lockhart
was going to take him way away against his will.
Lockhart is taken back to the sanitarium,
where he's going through all the treatments.
He starts writing a letter very similar to the one
Pembrose had written, and when he reaches the part
of finding out the truth, he has a realization.
He grabs the glass from his desk and breaks it,
and with a shard, he cuts his cast open: turns
out his leg had been fine the whole time.
Determined to get to the bottom of this, Lockhart
leaves for the church building, which he forces
open with a shovel. Inside he finds a huge
laboratory with eel drawings, baby fetuses
in jars and faces floating on dishes. There's also
a portrait of the baroness surrounded by candles.
He moves deeper into the cave and finds the bald
man throwing bodies into the river for the eels
to eat. At the same time in the main building,
Hannah gets into a swimming pool and is also
approached by eels, who at first swim closer but
suddenly form a circle around her as she starts
bleeding between her legs. Back in the cave,
the bald man notices Lockhart and attacks him,
but after some struggling, Lockhart manages to
shake him off and ends him with a hit to the head.
Both Hannah and Lockhart run away from their
locations and meet in the clinic hallways,
but Hannah pushes him away to go
find Volmer in the dining room.
Lockhart follows her inside and starts
telling everyone that the doctor is making
them sick on purpose so they should stand
up against him. The patients start doing so,
but they're in a zombie-like state, so
they surround Lockhart and capture him.
Later on, Lockhart's taken to the transfusion
wing. While Volmer connects puts him in one of the
special chambers, he explains how the experiments
work: the water from the aquifer is toxic to
humans, but with life-restoring properties for
the eels. The baron discovered how to distill the
water to create an elixir apt for humans and they
use patients for it. They're put in the chambers,
forced eels down their throats, and the
filtered watered leaves their bodies into
those little blue bottles. Volmer puts Lockhart
through that exact procedure before leaving.
The next day, Hannah is told by Volmer
that she's a woman now and she's ready.
Before joining the doctor for the next step, she
visits Lockhart, who looks completely brainwashed
and says he doesn't want to leave. Hannah gifts
him back the doll before leaving to get ready.
Later at night, Volmer together with doctors and
nurses all dress up rather fancily for a special
occasion: Volmer gets married to Hannah, putting
the baroness' locket around her neck during the
ceremony. They celebrate with a dance, and while
the other doctors stay at the party, Volmer takes
Hannah to the underground cave, where he shows
her the baroness' portrait and a hidden bed as
he tells her this is where all began for her.
Back in his room, Lockhart snaps out of it thanks
to the doll and starts looking more closely at
the pictures of the rebuilding of the clinic.
After re-checking Victoria's notes and taking
a second look at the photograph in the doctor's
office, he comes to a realization: Volmer
IS Baron von Reichmerl, and Hannah is the
fetus the villagers cut off the baroness. They've
stayed young and alive thanks to the eel water.
We cut back to the cave then, where Volmer is
telling Hannah that story while tying her to
a bed and touching her against her will. When
he's about to possess her, Lockhart interrupts
them by dropping an oil can on the floor. When
he's confronted with the truth, Volmer tears
off the skin of his face to reveal the burns
under it before pushing Lockhart to the floor.
Lockhart wastes no time and turns on a lighter
that he drops on the oil, catching Volmer on fire.
The fire spreads to the main building through
the ventilation shaft while Lockhart tries to
rescue Hannah, but Volmer -who managed to turn
off the flames on his body- grabs him and throws
him against some shelves. They take the fight
downstairs and Volmer grabs Lockhart again by
the neck. He's about to throw him to the eels when
Hannah, who managed to free herself from the bed,
shows up behind him, distracts him by calling
him "dad" then finishes him off with a shovel.
Volmer falls into the water and becomes eel
food, Hannah throws the locket after him.
They run outside and find the main building on
fire. Doctors and nurses are screaming and running
away or trying to help put off the flames,
but the patients are dancing in the garden.
Lockhart stares at the craziness of it at all but
is brought back to reality by Hannah, who's found
her bicycle. They leave the place together on the
bike, and halfway through the road, a car hits
them: the people driving are Lockhart's company's
board of directors, who have come to check on him
and Pembrose after not getting any news for days.
After telling them Pembrose is gone, Lockhart
refuses to get in the car. The directors ask him
if he's lost his mind, and he replies he actually
feels much better before driving away with
Hannah on the bike and a big smile on his face.